Title: Restricted Breed Dogs

----

Text: 

Under the Companion Animals Act 1998(the Act) and the Companion Animals Regulation 1999 for owners of  restricted dogs.
Local councils have a general duty under the Act to take such steps as necessary to ensure they are aware of the existence of all  restricted dogs that are ordinarily kept in their areas.
 
Officers authorized under the act have the power to seize a restricted dog, if the officer is satisfied that any control requirements have not been complied with in relation to the dog. Council law enforcement officers and police can apply these requirements.  

## Restricted Dogs

It is an offence in New South Wales to breed, acquire, sell or give away a dog breed on the restricted dog list below;

Restricted dogs in NSW are as follows:
(a)	American Pitbull Terrier or Pitbull Terrier;
(b)	Japanese Tosa;
(c)	Dogo Argentino (Argentinean fighting dog);
(d)	Fila Brasiliero (Brazilian Fighting dog);
(d1) Any other dog of a breed, kind or description whose importation into the Australia is prohibited by or under the Customs Act 1901 of the Commonwealth;
(e)	Any dog declared by a council under division 6 of the Act to be a restricted dog;
(f)	Any dog of a breed, kind or description prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section.     

(image: shutterstock_211544005.jpg)

 A council ‘declared restricted dog’ refers to any dog where the council is of the opinion that a dog is of a breed or kind of dog on the restricted dog list or a cross-breed of any such breed or kind of dog.

If council issues a dog owner with a ‘Notice of Intention to Declare a Dog to be a Restricted Dog’ under Division 6, the owner has 28 days in which to complete the process where they may elect to have the dog’s breed and temperament assessed. If you receive such a notice you should contact your local council for further information.
Please Note: This process does not apply to Declared Dangerous or Menacing Dogs

----

Info: 

----

Questions: 

- 
  question: >
    Is it an offence to breed, acquire, sell
    or give away a Restricted breed dog?
  choice_1: 'Yes'
  choice_2: 'No'
  choice_3: Only after it is de-sexed
  choice_4: Only after I advise the council
  answer: "1"
- 
  question: >
    If control requirements have not been
    complied with in relation to dangerous,
    menacing and restricted breed dogs who
    has the power to seize the dog
  choice_1: Dogs NSW
  choice_2: Authorised Officers
  choice_3: Animal Rescue agencies
  choice_4: All of the above
  answer: "2"
- 
  question: >
    Which dog is not listed as a Restricted
    breed?
  choice_1: >
    American Pitbull Terrier or Pitbull
    Terrier
  choice_2: Japanese Tosa
  choice_3: English Staffordshire Terrier
  choice_4: Brazilian Fighting Dog
  answer: "3"
- 
  question: >
    When the council issues you with a
    ‘Notice of Intention to Declare a Dog
    a Restricted breed”, how many days do
    you have for the dog to be breed
    assessed?
  choice_1: 7 days
  choice_2: 14 days
  choice_3: 21 days
  choice_4: 28 days
  answer: "4"